a Grace Notes study

Foundations 100, Lesson 1

By Rev. Drue Freeman

Introduction to the Course

The attached file (FDN101.pdf) provides the study materials for this lesson.  To read or print the file, you will need the free Acrobat Reader application. Go to http://www.adobe.com to download the install program that is suitable for your operating system.

Course Outline

There are twenty-seven (27) lessons in this course, presented in ten (10) Grace Notes lessons.   Each lesson has a Quiz, to be completed and returned to Grace Notes after studying the lesson. Here is a list of the topics to be studied in each lesson. When you have completed all of the lessons, we will send you a certificate of completion, and update your records in the Grace Notes training database.

Section I
GETTING STARTED
FDN101
Lesson 1: Personal Preparation
Lesson 2: The Bible
Lesson 3: A Historical Overview
FDN102
Lesson 4: A Chronological Overview
Lesson 5: Preparing to Study the Bible
Section II
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
FDN103
Lesson 6: Interpret Based on Divine Essence
Lesson 7: Interpret Christologically
Lesson 8: Interpret the Differences
FDN104
Lesson 9: Interpret to Find Out How to Life
Lesson 10: Interpret from Primary Passages
Lesson 11: Interpret Based on Context
FDN105
Lesson 12 : Interpret Comparatively
Lesson 13 : Interpret Harmoniously
Lesson 14 : Interpret Literately
FDN106
Lesson 15: Interpret Recognizing Human Volition
Lesson 16: Interpret Progressively
Lesson 17: Interpret Dispensationally
FDN107
Lesson 18: Interpret Covenantally
Lesson 19: Interpret Specifically
Lesson 20: Interpret Prophecy Carefully
Section III
IMPLEMENTATION
FDN108
Lesson 21: Getting Familiar with the Book
Lesson 22: Make an Outline of the Book
Lesson 23: Narrow the Scope of Your Study
FDN109
Lesson 24: Looking for the Relationships
Lesson 25: Analyzing the Remote Context
FDN110
Lesson 26: Expanding Your Study
Lesson 27: Making the Points

Instructions

Begin each study session with prayer. It is the Holy Spirit who makes spiritual things discernible to Christians, so it is essential to be in fellowship with the Lord during Bible study.

Study Foundations, Lessons 1, 2 and 3, in the attached file.
Complete the exercises below. Use the Reply feature of your E-mail application to open a reply message. Type the answer to each question in the space provided under the question. Question may be True/False, short answer, fill-in-the-blank, or a brief essay. The space will expand to accommodate whatever answer you have.
When you are satisfied that you have answered all the questions, SEND the message to Grace Notes.
SAVE the email message that contains your answers. The answer key will come with the next lesson, and you will be asked to record how many correct answers you had. You can save it before you send it, or you can retrieve it from your Sent Files folder and move it into another folder for safe keeping.
When we receive your response, we will send you the next lesson.
Let me know if you have any questions about this. Write to: wdoud@gracenotes.info
Please supply the following registration information.

Name:
Street Address or P. O. Box No.:
Apartment (if any):
City:
State or Province:
Postal Code:
Country (if not USA):
Email Address:
Please note: most of the exercises require personalized answers, such as those that ask for your opinion, or are an evaluation of something. Therefore, no answer key can be provided.

Lesson 1 Exercises

In your own words, list the principles involved in your preparation to study the Bible.
Answer:

List the Bible verses that those principles came from.
Answer:

Look up each verse and restate the principle in your own words.
Answer:

State what you want to gain from the study of God’s Word?
Answer:

Lesson 2 Exercises

1.  In your own words, what is the Bible?
Answer:

2.  What does the Bible say about itself?
Answer:

3.  Describe the difference between “Inspiration” and “Illumination.”
Answer:

4.  What are the original languages of Scripture?
Answer:

5.  What is a Testament and how many are in the Bible?
Answer:

6.  What are the five major divisions of the Old Testament?
Answer:

7.  What are the three major divisions of the New Testament?
Answer:

Lesson 3 Exercises

1.  After looking closely at the outline found in the “Overview of the Bible”, what are your observations?
Answer:

2.  Commit this Overview to memory.

End of Quiz

Warren Doud
Grace Notes
wdoud@gracenotes.info
http://www.gracenotes.info
1-512-458-8923
